legal/terms_of_service.md, before:

Note: This outline was created by modifying a ChatGPT-generated outline of the GoFundMe Terms of Service: https://chatgpt.com/share/686d336d-6dd0-8006-b6d1-40476d507aa3

## 1. Introduction

- These Terms of Service apply to all use of BugPile's Platform.
- Use of the Platform constitutes agreement to these Terms.

## 2. Key Definitions

- **"BugPile Account"**: User account for accessing Services, including personal information, credentials, and activity logs.
- **"Bug Report"**: Description of a software bug or unimplemented feature in a Software Project.
- **"Bug Report Campaign"**: Fundraising campaign to resolve a specific Bug Report.
- **"Donor"**: Individual or entity contributing funds to Bug Report Campaigns.
- **"Maintainer"**: Individual, group, or entity that owns a Software Project and conducts Bug Report Campaigns for that project.
- **"Software Project"**: A software development project that publicly shares its source code and Bug Reports on a Software Forge.
- **"Software Forge"**: A platform that hosts source code files and Bug Reports for Software Projects (currently GitHub only).
- **"Transaction Fee"**: Fee charged by BugPile or payment processors for processing donations.
- **"Transfers"**: Movement of raised funds to Maintainer's financial account.
- **"User Content"**: Content created by Users on the Website.
- **"User Profile"**: Optional public profile displaying:
  • Donations to Bug Report Campaigns
  • Owned Bug Report Campaigns
  • Endorsed Campaigns and Maintainers
- **"We", "Us", "Platform", "Services", "Website"**: BugPile's fundraising platform and all related features.
- **"You", "User"**: Any individual or entity using the Platform.

## 3. Services Provided

- BugPile offers tools for Maintainers raise funds for their software development work, by creating and managing Bug Report Campaigns.
- BugPile does not solicit donations on behalf of its Users.
- BugPile is a for-profit organization. BugPile is not a bank, charity, or financial advisor.
- We reserve the right to change or suspend the Services at any time.
  - We are not liable for any financial losses that might result from interruptions to the Services.

## 4. Accounts and Eligibility

- Users must be 18+ to create a BugPile account.
- Users may donate to Bug Report Campaigns without creating an account.
- Maintainers must create a BugPile Account in order to initiate Bug Report Campaigns. In addition to a BugPile Account, maintainers must also have:
  1. A third-party account with a supported Software Forge. (Currently, GitHub is the only supported Software Forge.)
  2. A third-party account with a supported Payment Processor.
- Maintainers agree to comply with the Terms of Service for any Software Forge accounts or Payment Processor accounts that they use in conjunction with the Services.
- Maintainers are responsible for safeguarding access to their BugPile, Software Forge, and Payment Processor accounts.

## 5. User Responsibilities

### Maintainers

- You agree to create Bug Report Campaigns solely for the purpose of funding work on your own Software Projects.
- All contributions to your Bug Report Campaigns are donations, and you have no formal obligation to resolve campaigns in any specific time frame. However:
  - Maintaining clear communication with Donors to your Bug Report Campaigns will help you establish a good reputation on the Platform, and improve your chances of raising funds for future campaigns.
- You  agree to cooperate with our requests for further information about your Bug Report Campaign(s), in order to verify that your campaign(s) comply with these Terms of Service.
- We do not withhold taxes from donations that are sent to your Bug Report Campaigns. You are solely responsible for calculating, reporting, and paying any applicable taxes that you owe to your local tax authorities.

### Donors

- For any donation you make on the Platform, you represent and warrant that you are legally authorized to use your payment method (e.g. credit card), and that any information associated with your payment method is correct and up to date.
- You donate to Bug Report Campaigns at own risk, and without any expectation of returns.
  - Donations are non-refundable.
  - The purpose of donating to a Bug Report Campaign is only to help encourage and prioritize the work. It does not create any obligation for the Maintainer resolve the Bug Report Campaign within any particular time frame.
  - It is your responsibility to understand the software development goals for particular Bug Report Campaigns, and to correctly target your donations to the campaigns that you wish to support.
  - We are not responsible for the accuracy of any information provided by Maintainers about their Bug Report Campaigns, nor for any promises they make regarding resolution of those campaigns.
- If you opt into recurring donations, you authorize BugPile to charge your designated payment method for the amount and frequency that you have selected, without further authorization from you.
  - You may cancel your recurring donation to a Bug Report Campaign at any time on the Website.
  - Any donations processed prior to your cancellation request will not be refunded.
  - Your recurring donations to a Bug Report Campaign will be automatically stopped when the Bug Report Campaign is closed or deleted by the Maintainer.
- We reserve the right to limit the amount and/or frequency of your donations, to guard against fraudulent or abusive uses of the Platform (e.g. credit card testing, charging of stolen credit cards).

## 6. Fees, Holds, Transfers, and Refunds

- You (the Maintainer) agree that Transaction Fees will be deducted from each donation payment that is sent to your Bug Report Campaign(s), including:
  1. A Transaction Fee deducted by the Payment Processor.
  2. A Transaction Fee deducted by BugPile.
- We will make commercially reasonable efforts to make Transfers promptly available to Maintainers. However:
  - Completion of a Transfer depends on you (the Maintainer) providing accurate and up-to-date information in your BugPile, Software Forge, and Payment Processor accounts.
  - We do not guarantee that Transfers will be available to you (the Maintainer) within any specific time frame.
  - We expressly disclaim any and all responsibility for delays in Transfers, and any consequences arising from such delays.
- We may choose, at our sole discretion and without prior notice, to issue refunds for a Bug Report Campaign, up to and including the entire amount donated to the Bug Report Campaign. We may issue refunds for several reasons, including but not limited to:
  - We have determined that a Bug Report Campaign does not comply with these Terms of Service.
  - You (the Maintainer) have not cooperated with our requests for further information about your Bug Report Campaign, in order to verify that it complies with these Terms of Service.
  - In order to comply with applicable laws or regulations, or to comply with a court order, injunction, or writ.
- We may, at our sole discretion, place a hold on a Bug Report Campaign, restrict Transfers, reverse Transfers, or secure reserves in order to protect our Users. We may initiate these actions for several reasons, including but not limited to:
  - We need more information about a Bug Report Campaign, in order to verify that it complies with these Terms of Service.
  - One or more Donor(s) to the Bug Report Campaign have issued chargebacks with their payment processors, due to unauthorized uses of their credit cards or for any other reason.
  - In order to comply with applicable laws or regulations, or to comply with a court order, injunction, or writ.

## 7. Prohibited Activities

### Bug Report Campaigns

Maintainers may not conduct Bug Report Campaigns involving:

- Fraudulent, inaccurate, dishonest, or impossible claims
- Violation of laws, regulations, or payment card provider requirements
- Promotion, advertisement, or sale of goods or services
- Pornographic content
- Controlled substances
- Sanctioned countries, regions, governments, persons, or entities
- Intellectual property infringement
- Weapons
- Financial or violent crime
- Gambling, contests, raffles, sports betting, sweepstakes, or lotteries
- Money laundering or fund origin concealment
- Financial investment
- Bullying, harassment, or discrimination
- Political fundraising

### User Conduct

Users may not:

- Interfere with or disrupt servers or networks
- Harvest personally identifiable information of other Users
- Impersonate other Users or use their accounts without permission
- Gain unauthorized access to Services or connected systems
- Generate excessive automated requests or use unauthorized bots
- Share login credentials
- Make or accept suspicious or fraudulent donations
- Use Services for sanctioned entities

### Enforcement

For prohibited activities, we may:

- Remove or disable Bug Report Campaigns or Accounts
- Place holds on donations and Transfers
- Freeze, cancel, or reverse donations
- Report to law enforcement or take other legal actions

## 8. Moderation of Bug Report Campaigns

- We closely moderate Bug Report Campaigns, using a combination of human review and automated tools, to help ensure that Bug Report Campaigns are related to software development work, and otherwise comply with our Terms of Service.
- In order to create a new Bug Report Campaign, there is a two-step process:
  1. You (the Maintainer) submit a request to create a new Bug Report Campaign, for a Bug Report that is related to one of your Software Projects.
  2. We review your request, and make a decision to approve or reject the campaign.
- You agree that there will be a delay between the time that you (the Maintainer) submit a request to create a Bug Report Campaign, and the time that we respond with decision to approve or reject your request. Further, you agree that:
  - Our ability to reach an approve/reject  your request may depend on your (the Maintainer's) cooperation to provide additional information about the Bug Report Campaign, in order verify that it complies with these Terms of Service.
  - We do not guarantee that we will review your request to create a Bug Report Campaigns within any specific time frame.
  - We expressly disclaim any financial losses that might result from a delay to review a Bug Report Campaign, or from a decision to reject a Bug Report Campaign.
- In the case that we reject your (the Maintainer's) request to a create a Bug Report Campaign, you may appeal the decision by providing further information. However:
  - We do not guarantee that we will change our decision in response to your appeal, or that we will review your appeal within any specific time frame.
  - You (the Maintainer) agree to abide by our decision to reject a Bug Report Campaign, in spite of any appeals.

## 9. Intellectual Property & User Content

- You (the User) represent and warrant that you have the necessary permissions to share any content that you publish on the Website, including but not limited to any information that you share on your User Profile.
- You (the User) grant BugPile a worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable license to copy, distribute, translate, publish, or prepare derivative works of any content that you share on the Website.
- You (the Public) may notify us about possible copyright or trademark infringements of your intellectual property by Users of our Website, as per the Copyright Modernization Act of Canada. If we determine that your intellectual property rights have been violated, we may terminate the BugPile Account(s) of the offending User(s), or remove the infringing User Content from the Website.

## 10. Privacy

- See BugPile's Privacy Policy.
- Certain information that you (the User) provide to BugPile will be publicly visible on the Website, including:
  - Information that you add to your User Profile (e.g. name, photo, biography).
  - Information about your (the Maintainer's) Bug Report Campaigns, including the total amount of funds raised for those campaigns, and the number of contributors to those campaigns.
- By default, all donations to Bug Report Campaigns are anonymous. The public will not be able to see the amounts that you (the Donor) have donated, or which Bug Report Campaigns you have donated to. Further, when a Bug Report Campaign receives your donation, the owner (Maintainer) of the campaign will only be able see the amount donated, and not who has made the donation.
  - If you wish to make your donation public, you may enable the "Make this donation public" checkbox when making your payment, in which case the details of your donation will be made publicly visible on your User Profile, and will also be made visible to the Maintainer that owns the Bug Report Campaign.

## 11. Account Termination

- We may, at our sole discretion and without prior notice, suspend or terminate your BugPile Account in response to concerns about account activities that are fraudulent, illegal, or constitute a material breach of these Terms of Service. In addition, we may suspend or terminate your BugPile Account if:
  - You (Maintainer) violate the terms of your Payment Processor and/or Software Forge accounts.
  - We need to comply with applicable laws or regulations, or to comply with a court order, writ, or injunction.
- If we suspend or terminate your BugPile Account, we may also permanently delete the User Content associated with your BugPile Account, including but not limited to your User Profile and Bug Report Campaigns. To the extent permitted by applicable law, we disclaim any liability for damages or losses resulting from such deletion of data.

## 12. Disclaimers & Liability Limits

- Services provided "as is."
- No guarantee that any Bug Report Campaign will receive a specific amount of donations, or any donations at all.
- Donors are responsible determining which Bug Report Campaigns they wish to support.
- Liability capped at $100 or the amount paid to BugPile in past 6 months.

## 13. Indemnification

- Users must indemnify BugPile for losses arising from use of the Services or from violation of these Terms of Service.

## 14. Dispute Resolution & Arbitration

- Users must resolve disputes via arbitration, in the legal jurisdiction of Ontario, Canada.
- Class actions and jury trials waived.

Commit message:

terms_of_service.md: add FOSS license requirement [wip][legal]
Add requirement that software projects publish their source code under
a FOSS license.

legal/terms_of_service.md, after:

Note: This outline was created by modifying a ChatGPT-generated outline of the GoFundMe Terms of Service: https://chatgpt.com/share/686d336d-6dd0-8006-b6d1-40476d507aa3

## 1. Introduction

- These Terms of Service apply to all use of BugPile's Platform.
- Use of the Platform constitutes agreement to these Terms.

## 2. Key Definitions

- **"BugPile Account"**: User account for accessing Services, including personal information, credentials, and activity logs.
- **"Bug Report"**: Description of a software bug or unimplemented feature in a FOSS Project.
- **"Bug Report Campaign"**: Fundraising campaign to resolve a specific Bug Report.
- **"Donor"**: Individual or entity contributing funds to Bug Report Campaigns.
- **"Maintainer"**: Individual, group, or entity that owns a FOSS Project and conducts Bug Report Campaigns for that project.
- **"FOSS Project"**: A software development project that:
  - Uses a Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) license approved by either the Open Source Initiative (OSI) or the Free Software Foundation (FSF)
  - Publicly shares its complete source code and Bug Reports on GitHub
  - Provides clear licensing information in its repository
- **"Software Forge"**: A platform that hosts source code files and Bug Reports for FOSS Projects (currently GitHub only).
- **"Transaction Fee"**: Fee charged by BugPile or payment processors for processing donations.
- **"Transfers"**: Movement of raised funds to Maintainer's financial account.
- **"User Content"**: Content created by Users on the Website.
- **"User Profile"**: Optional public profile displaying:
  • Donations to Bug Report Campaigns
  • Owned Bug Report Campaigns
  • Endorsed Campaigns and Maintainers
- **"We", "Us", "Platform", "Services", "Website"**: BugPile's fundraising platform and all related features.
- **"You", "User"**: Any individual or entity using the Platform.

## 3. Services Provided

- BugPile offers tools for Maintainers to raise funds for their FOSS development work, by creating and managing Bug Report Campaigns.
- BugPile does not solicit donations on behalf of its Users.
- BugPile is a for-profit organization. BugPile is not a bank, charity, or financial advisor.
- We reserve the right to change or suspend the Services at any time.
  - We are not liable for any financial losses that might result from interruptions to the Services.

## 4. Accounts and Eligibility

- Users must be 18+ to create a BugPile account.
- Users may donate to Bug Report Campaigns without creating an account.
- Maintainers must create a BugPile Account in order to initiate Bug Report Campaigns. In addition to a BugPile Account, maintainers must also have:
  1. A GitHub account hosting their FOSS Project with complete source code under an OSI or FSF-approved FOSS license.
  2. Clear license documentation (LICENSE file or equivalent) in their repository root.
  3. A third-party account with a supported Payment Processor.
- Maintainers agree to comply with the Terms of Service for any Software Forge accounts or Payment Processor accounts that they use in conjunction with the Services.
- Maintainers are responsible for safeguarding access to their BugPile, Software Forge, and Payment Processor accounts.

## 5. User Responsibilities

### Maintainers

- You agree to create Bug Report Campaigns solely for the purpose of funding work on your own FOSS Projects.
- All contributions to your Bug Report Campaigns are donations, and you have no formal obligation to resolve campaigns in any specific time frame. However:
  - Maintaining clear communication with Donors to your Bug Report Campaigns will help you establish a good reputation on the Platform, and improve your chances of raising funds for future campaigns.
- You  agree to cooperate with our requests for further information about your Bug Report Campaign(s), in order to verify that your campaign(s) comply with these Terms of Service.
- We do not withhold taxes from donations that are sent to your Bug Report Campaigns. You are solely responsible for calculating, reporting, and paying any applicable taxes that you owe to your local tax authorities.

### Donors

- For any donation you make on the Platform, you represent and warrant that you are legally authorized to use your payment method (e.g. credit card), and that any information associated with your payment method is correct and up to date.
- You donate to Bug Report Campaigns at own risk, and without any expectation of returns.
  - Donations are non-refundable.
  - The purpose of donating to a Bug Report Campaign is only to help encourage and prioritize the work. It does not create any obligation for the Maintainer resolve the Bug Report Campaign within any particular time frame.
  - It is your responsibility to understand the software development goals for particular Bug Report Campaigns, and to correctly target your donations to the campaigns that you wish to support.
  - We are not responsible for the accuracy of any information provided by Maintainers about their Bug Report Campaigns, nor for any promises they make regarding resolution of those campaigns.
- If you opt into recurring donations, you authorize BugPile to charge your designated payment method for the amount and frequency that you have selected, without further authorization from you.
  - You may cancel your recurring donation to a Bug Report Campaign at any time on the Website.
  - Any donations processed prior to your cancellation request will not be refunded.
  - Your recurring donations to a Bug Report Campaign will be automatically stopped when the Bug Report Campaign is closed or deleted by the Maintainer.
- We reserve the right to limit the amount and/or frequency of your donations, to guard against fraudulent or abusive uses of the Platform (e.g. credit card testing, charging of stolen credit cards).

## 6. Fees, Holds, Transfers, and Refunds

- You (the Maintainer) agree that Transaction Fees will be deducted from each donation payment that is sent to your Bug Report Campaign(s), including:
  1. A Transaction Fee deducted by the Payment Processor.
  2. A Transaction Fee deducted by BugPile.
- We will make commercially reasonable efforts to make Transfers promptly available to Maintainers. However:
  - Completion of a Transfer depends on you (the Maintainer) providing accurate and up-to-date information in your BugPile, Software Forge, and Payment Processor accounts.
  - We do not guarantee that Transfers will be available to you (the Maintainer) within any specific time frame.
  - We expressly disclaim any and all responsibility for delays in Transfers, and any consequences arising from such delays.
- We may choose, at our sole discretion and without prior notice, to issue refunds for a Bug Report Campaign, up to and including the entire amount donated to the Bug Report Campaign. We may issue refunds for several reasons, including but not limited to:
  - We have determined that a Bug Report Campaign does not comply with these Terms of Service.
  - You (the Maintainer) have not cooperated with our requests for further information about your Bug Report Campaign, in order to verify that it complies with these Terms of Service.
  - In order to comply with applicable laws or regulations, or to comply with a court order, injunction, or writ.
- We may, at our sole discretion, place a hold on a Bug Report Campaign, restrict Transfers, reverse Transfers, or secure reserves in order to protect our Users. We may initiate these actions for several reasons, including but not limited to:
  - We need more information about a Bug Report Campaign, in order to verify that it complies with these Terms of Service.
  - One or more Donor(s) to the Bug Report Campaign have issued chargebacks with their payment processors, due to unauthorized uses of their credit cards or for any other reason.
  - In order to comply with applicable laws or regulations, or to comply with a court order, injunction, or writ.

## 7. Prohibited Activities

### Bug Report Campaigns

Maintainers may not conduct Bug Report Campaigns involving:

- Fraudulent, inaccurate, dishonest, or impossible claims
- Violation of laws, regulations, or payment card provider requirements
- Software projects that do not use OSI or FSF-approved licenses
- Software projects with incomplete, obfuscated, or proprietary source code
- Projects hosted on platforms other than GitHub
- Promotion, advertisement, or sale of goods or services
- Pornographic content
- Controlled substances
- Sanctioned countries, regions, governments, persons, or entities
- Intellectual property infringement
- Weapons
- Financial or violent crime
- Gambling, contests, raffles, sports betting, sweepstakes, or lotteries
- Money laundering or fund origin concealment
- Financial investment
- Bullying, harassment, or discrimination
- Political fundraising

### User Conduct

Users may not:

- Interfere with or disrupt servers or networks
- Harvest personally identifiable information of other Users
- Impersonate other Users or use their accounts without permission
- Gain unauthorized access to Services or connected systems
- Generate excessive automated requests or use unauthorized bots
- Share login credentials
- Make or accept suspicious or fraudulent donations
- Use Services for sanctioned entities

### Enforcement

For prohibited activities, we may:

- Remove or disable Bug Report Campaigns or Accounts
- Place holds on donations and Transfers
- Freeze, cancel, or reverse donations
- Report to law enforcement or take other legal actions

## 8. Moderation of Bug Report Campaigns

- We closely moderate Bug Report Campaigns, using a combination of human review and automated tools, to help ensure that Bug Report Campaigns are related to software development work, and otherwise comply with our Terms of Service.
- In order to create a new Bug Report Campaign, there is a two-step process:
  1. You (the Maintainer) submit a request to create a new Bug Report Campaign, for a Bug Report that is related to one of your FOSS Projects.
  2. We review your request, and make a decision to approve or reject the campaign.
- You agree that there will be a delay between the time that you (the Maintainer) submit a request to create a Bug Report Campaign, and the time that we respond with decision to approve or reject your request. Further, you agree that:
  - Our ability to reach an approve/reject  your request may depend on your (the Maintainer's) cooperation to provide additional information about the Bug Report Campaign, in order verify that it complies with these Terms of Service.
  - We do not guarantee that we will review your request to create a Bug Report Campaigns within any specific time frame.
  - We expressly disclaim any financial losses that might result from a delay to review a Bug Report Campaign, or from a decision to reject a Bug Report Campaign.
- In the case that we reject your (the Maintainer's) request to a create a Bug Report Campaign, you may appeal the decision by providing further information. However:
  - We do not guarantee that we will change our decision in response to your appeal, or that we will review your appeal within any specific time frame.
  - You (the Maintainer) agree to abide by our decision to reject a Bug Report Campaign, in spite of any appeals.

## 9. Intellectual Property & User Content

- You (the User) represent and warrant that you have the necessary permissions to share any content that you publish on the Website, including but not limited to any information that you share on your User Profile.
- You (the User) grant BugPile a worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable license to copy, distribute, translate, publish, or prepare derivative works of any content that you share on the Website.
- You (the Public) may notify us about possible copyright or trademark infringements of your intellectual property by Users of our Website, as per the Copyright Modernization Act of Canada. If we determine that your intellectual property rights have been violated, we may terminate the BugPile Account(s) of the offending User(s), or remove the infringing User Content from the Website.

## 10. Privacy

- See BugPile's Privacy Policy.
- Certain information that you (the User) provide to BugPile will be publicly visible on the Website, including:
  - Information that you add to your User Profile (e.g. name, photo, biography).
  - Information about your (the Maintainer's) Bug Report Campaigns, including the total amount of funds raised for those campaigns, and the number of contributors to those campaigns.
- By default, all donations to Bug Report Campaigns are anonymous. The public will not be able to see the amounts that you (the Donor) have donated, or which Bug Report Campaigns you have donated to. Further, when a Bug Report Campaign receives your donation, the owner (Maintainer) of the campaign will only be able see the amount donated, and not who has made the donation.
  - If you wish to make your donation public, you may enable the "Make this donation public" checkbox when making your payment, in which case the details of your donation will be made publicly visible on your User Profile, and will also be made visible to the Maintainer that owns the Bug Report Campaign.

## 11. Account Termination

- We may, at our sole discretion and without prior notice, suspend or terminate your BugPile Account in response to concerns about account activities that are fraudulent, illegal, or constitute a material breach of these Terms of Service. In addition, we may suspend or terminate your BugPile Account if:
  - You (Maintainer) violate the terms of your Payment Processor and/or Software Forge accounts.
  - We need to comply with applicable laws or regulations, or to comply with a court order, writ, or injunction.
- If we suspend or terminate your BugPile Account, we may also permanently delete the User Content associated with your BugPile Account, including but not limited to your User Profile and Bug Report Campaigns. To the extent permitted by applicable law, we disclaim any liability for damages or losses resulting from such deletion of data.

## 12. Disclaimers & Liability Limits

- Services provided "as is."
- No guarantee that any Bug Report Campaign will receive a specific amount of donations, or any donations at all.
- Donors are responsible determining which Bug Report Campaigns they wish to support.
- Liability capped at $100 or the amount paid to BugPile in past 6 months.

## 13. Indemnification

- Users must indemnify BugPile for losses arising from use of the Services or from violation of these Terms of Service.

## 14. Dispute Resolution & Arbitration

- Users must resolve disputes via arbitration, in the legal jurisdiction of Ontario, Canada.
- Class actions and jury trials waived.
